And today we're going to finish off this homework.
Finally we're going to look at the additional quality assurance checks and see what errors they will
help us find.
Let's have a look.
Let's have a look at our door.
So we already have the working file we can we can start working with that.
Let's let's call this
missional checks.
Select star for home and this file.
Oh this table.
So what are the some logical checks here.
Well first of all what we can do and what we probably should do is check what we were told in the conditions
for this exercise.
Just going to find it.
All right.
I think I need to open it up again.
So here's our homework and original Doughton.
So in the challenge what did they say.
Here it says the customer ID field does not contain duplicate records.
Now let's go ahead and check that.
There's two ways you could have done it.
Number one is through Excel and this is the part where you had to kind of switch your imagination on
and think of ways it's not too trivial through Excel because you did have to break up the file into
two and I'll show you how you could have done it through Excel.
If we take let's say Part One let's well let's look at the CSPI so we don't have to load the text in
again.
And actually will also load part 2 in as well as a separate file.
So this is the bit where you had to use a bit of imagination
control shift L to fit a switch on the filters.
And let's because we want to check if there are duplicate records in this field but also we know it's
split up into two.
So I'll actually do this.
So we have two files that doesn't count as part 1 and there's part 2.
So how do we check if there are duplicate.
But not only in this file by itself but also across the two files.
So the best way to do it is just sort them and so you know that definitely they're in ascending order
.
And then check these ones as well so sort these ones.
Same way.
And now you know that they're also in ascending order and that means that if you go to the bottom here
you go to the bottom and you see 3 5 3 4 8 4 4 and 3 5 3 4 8 4 5 meaning that definitely they cannot
be duplicated across the two files because the biggest one here is this one and the smallest one here
is this one.
That means that anything in this file is definitely greater than this value and anything in this file
is great less than this value.
And these are consecutive values so therefore the files are definitely like this one.
And then the other one and there is no duplicates across them so all we have to now check is other duplicates
in each one of these files so.
Best way to check that is you go dark and just so I say remove duplicate continue of current selection
and click OK.
No duplicate values found good and now theres this one remove duplicate values continue current selection
so it doesn't expand to the whole table.
Okay.
And then it says on one duplicate values found and removed.
And these are.
And the rest remain.
OK.
So what we can do is arrange price controls and so that it's back in there and we have the duplicate
value here so how to how do you find duplicate value in Excel.
One way is you highlight it in conditional formatting highlight duplicate values and like obviously
it would be it would be insane trying to find it like by scrolling down.
But if it's highlighted you can filter according to the highlighting.
Right.
So when this filter responds to my request we should be able to filter by highlighting while it's not
the other way you could do it.
Is your pivot table and do account with that that might be a bit more complicated.
So this is taking a while indeed.
Well what else what else you could do is break it up into smaller files which would be even faster to
process.
And I wasn't.
This is definitely not something that is quick cleaning Dadda is never easy and quick so.
All right so this one is not responding to me but you get the point so we've highlighted the duplicate
values somewhere in there and you can just call it once a filter response or if your machine is a bit
faster you can select based on the highlighting and find that value.
All right so I'm going to just I'm actually going to bring up a skill so we'll I'll show you how to
do it in a skill as well so the skills but we didn't talk about this in the course to do this you would've
had to do some research on line.
So we want to What do we want to do.
Not not that obviously what we want to do is we want to select
what a Carl selects.
All right.
So customer ID there real ones count star.
So this is a group by statement from not from there from the working file
and we want to group by customer ID
and then we want to order or buy or even better.
Having having cons are
greater than one.
So what that does is basically it selects all customer IDs and it groups your is kind of like a pivot
it groups your
aggregates your table by customer ID and then also count the number of records.
If I dont do this part thats a filter.
I dont do this part do this it just tells you the number of times this particular customer ID comes
up if I do the having part it will only show me the ones that have columns.
This column is greater than one so there it is.
Thats the customer ID that came up twice.
And so now if I want to check it we just go select star
from here where customer ID is like and then just copy this value in here so we can just check.
Is it a duplicate row or is it just something went wrong.
So here you can see that the customers edge is the same but everything else is different.
So just basically all that means is that somehow the customer My dear got duplicated over across.
All right.
So how many have we fallen so far.
We have found three.
So we have two more left to go.
Two more areas to find.
All right let's do this.
OK.
So the other things that you would do and these additional checks obviously you would want to put them
into quotation marks or comments.
The other thing is you do is check the values right or let's check the you check the customer since
so we check the dates and to check the dates.
Weve already talked about how you do this you go.
You just select star from here where customer
since is less than a certain date and let's say 100 or 100 let's say 50 years for the company.
Right.
There's a very low chance that this company has been in operation for longer than that opes that's that
should be 1965.
All right.
If we run that they go.
So there is one record where obviously somebody made a mistake and it should be it probably should be
1999.
And this person had this record.
It has got the incorrect customer.
And so once again we found one more and probably the reason here is somebody made a typo when putting
this information in and the final one is if you really want to be diligent about your daughter you got
to check these values right.
So is anything.
Are there any outliers and so on.
Because if there's one error and one somebody put in a value incorrectly into one of these fields and
you're looking for soms and that outlier is substantial He might skew everything.
So we are a good way to do it if you go select let's say average of 2014 from
there.
So your average here is 388.
Right.
So they're kind of like nice high values max.
So like the max here and then you see 20000.
Right.
So how can that be.
If you look at 2015 the max is 800.
Right if you look at 20 16 the max is 16.
The expected Maxxis 800 right so and then just by looking at 2014 we can see that somebody putting a
value or two.
I remember we talked about looking for negative values.
You could also check for men and see what the minimum value was here which is zero which is fine as
not negative but the max is way out of line.
So once again you look for something else that's an anomaly.
And they think it can be any types of anomalies.
That's just one example when the value is too high.
Can be too low.
It can be negative and things like that.
So where 2014 is let's just say greater than 10000.
So you see there's only one value or even greater than 800 of them.
The average refund or not the average the max we found for the other columns once again there's only
one value which is this one.
And that looks like somebody just put in an incorrect value so that was error number five and I'm starting
to go faster because this is the story is getting way too big anyway.
So that's number five we founded.
Last thing we had to do is check the sum.
So let's do a calculation for the some select some 2016
right from our table
the 2016 e.
Okay.
So there's some and these surroundings they happen sometimes it's just how the how the data is stored
in float Ballis so that's all right that's we can run that let's get excel up and let's put this in
.
So that's how.
Value for the sum that we know and maybe less Format Cells Number two and then put some separators.
So that's in ASCII All right then excluded row which we happen to have saved here.
We know that's a sum or that's a value that's one excluded in skill and then one more
in SS.
Let's go find that one uploaded not analysis.
So Rose there it is.
So as you remember this got shifted so this is the actual value that we're looking for.
So we put that in here and and plus plus plus that's all total.
Now let's go have a look at the total in our document in our document.
There is a total.
Right.
Okay that's a bit too big.
So maybe it would subtract one from the other.
Perfect.
So that's the total that we found it matches to the total in the challenge and that is how this homework
was done.
As you can see this has extended over.
I think it's over 40 minutes by now.
It is tedious daughter prep is tedious but you've got to be diligent about it.
And is the most time consuming part of our sense.
I hope you went well with that and you learned a lot from this part of the course.
And good luck.
Best of luck in your daughter prep.
Through all your daughter's science career and I look forward to seeing you in the other parts of this
course.
Until next time happy analyzing.